{
"laotzu":[
“He who conquers others is strong; He who conquers himself is mighty.”,
“The snow goose need not bathe to make itself white. Neither need you do anything but be yourself.”,
“At the center of your being you have the answer; you know who you are and you know what you want.”,
“Knowing others is wisdom, knowing yourself is Enlightenment.”,
“Do the difficult things while they are easy and do the great things while they are small. A journey of a thousand miles must begin with a single step.”,
“Great acts are made up of small deeds.” ,
“Life is a series of natural and spontaneous changes. Don’t resist them – that only creates sorrow. Let reality be a reality. Let things flow naturally forward in whatever way they like.”,
“People in their handlings of affairs often fail when they are about to succeed. If one remains as careful at the end as he was at the beginning, there will be no failure.”,
“The key to growth is the introduction of higher dimensions of consciousness into our awareness.”,
“If you would take, you must first give, this is the beginning of intelligence.” ,
“By letting it go it all gets done. The world is won by those who let it go. But when you try and try. The world is beyond the winning.”,
“He who does not trust enough, Will not be trusted.”,
“If you do not change direction, you may end up where you are heading.”,
“Respond intelligently even to unintelligent treatment.” ,
“He who knows does not speak. He who speaks does not know.”,
“Sincere words are not fine; fine words are not sincere.”,
“Nothing is softer or more flexible than water, yet nothing can resist it.”,
“Music in the soul can be heard by the universe.”,
“A good traveler has no fixed plans, and is not intent on arriving.”,
],
"seneca":[
"Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity.",
"It is not because things are difficult that we do not dare; it is because we do not dare that things are difficult.",
"Difficulties strengthen the mind, as labor does the body.",
"Begin at once to live, and count each separate day as a separate life",
"Throw me to the wolves and I will return leading the pack.",
"Ignorance is the cause of fear.",
"As is a tale, so is life: not how long it is, but how good it is, is what matters.",
"Nothing is more honorable than a grateful heart.",
"One of the most beautiful qualities of true friendship is to understand and to be understood.",
"Every night before going to sleep, we must ask ourselves – what weakness did I overcome today? What virtue did I acquire?",
"Associate with people who are likely to improve you",
"True happiness is… to enjoy the present, without anxious dependence upon the future.",
"The whole future lies in uncertainty: live immediately.",
"There is no genius without a touch of madness.",
"He is most powerful who has power over himself.",
"No man was ever wise by chance",
"I shall never be ashamed of citing a bad author if the line is good.",
"Man is affected not by events but by the view he takes of them.",
"Time heals what reason cannot.",
"I am not born for one corner; the whole world is my native land.",
"A gem cannot be polished without friction, nor a man perfected without trials.",
"It is quality rather than quantity that matters.",
"Whatever can happen at any time can happen today.",],

}